hello everyone so in this video I'm
going to chat about the best things you
can do to prepare for admissions
assessments for Oxbridge that is Oxford
and Cambridge Universities I'm a student
at Cambridge University myself in my
third year so how many years ago was it
that I took an admissions assessment
this is my third year okay so three
years ago I sat the admissions
assessment for Natural Sciences it was
actually the first year of that
admissions assessment so it had never
happened before and it was the first
year they introduced the admission
assessment for Natural Sciences it has
been running since then and there are
now admissions assessments for most
subjects at Cambridge
there are also admissions assessments
Oxford for most subjects and these
assessments are either pre interview
assessments which have sat at the end of
October or assessments which are held at
interview so literally on your interview
date you will have your assessment then
basically these admissions assessments
are just one part of an application to
Oxford or Cambridge but they are kind of
the next big step once you've submitted
your personal statement a lot of people
ask me about how they prepare because
obviously I have taken one of the
admissions assessments and to be honest
with you I don't think that is a big
secret to cracking these admissions
assessments they're nothing to worry
about too much but yet in this video
hopefully I can just put you at ease and
tell you a few small tips that might
help out a little okay first thing you
need to do is make sure you're
registered for it because just by
submitting your you Cass form or
whatever application form you submitted
that isn't enough that doesn't
automatically register you for these
tests you need to register at your
nearest test centre and there is a
deadline for this deadline this year is
15th of October the tests are Sat this
year on the 30th of October the deadline
for registering is the 15th of October
that's just for this year
it varies year to year I think so just
be on it with those dates and make sure
you register in time because it would be
quite gutting to not register in time
and then that's your whole application
down the drain
actually let's backtrack a bit hopefully
by this point you actually know what
emissions assessment you need to sit if
not check the course page on the
University website and make sure you
look at the up-to-date stuff on what
admissions assessment you need to
register for on the course pages you
should also be able to access past
papers and a specimen paper for the
assessment you're sitting look at these
have an attempt at them familiarize
yourself with the question style the
format of the papers make sure you know
what to expect
important things know are like how long
should the paper last what topics is it
gonna cover there's normally a
specification that you can look at and
here is the biggest thing I'm going to
say to you in this video
practice these papers under timed
conditions I cannot stress this enough
the Natural Sciences Admissions
assessment that I sat was the most time
pressured exam I've ever sat in my life
it was that time pressured and they are
designed to be that way this is Oxford
and Cambridge the admissions process is
designed to be challenging so don't
expect it to be a breeze practice under
time conditions so be honest I practice
the specimen paper before sitting my
admissions assessment and even when I
was in the real thing I was still
shocked at how time pressured it was
make sure you've got your watch with you
I actually broke my watch halfway
through my admissions assessment which
was just gutting maybe take two watches
actually if you're gonna break your
watch like me make sure you know the
syllabus is for your a-levels well
because for the Natural Sciences
admissions assessment in particular it's
literally based on the a-level
syllabuses but taken to that next level
the case is similar for a lot of the
admissions assessments for a lot of
subjects they literally base it on the
corresponding a level syllabus but just
make it ten times harder and by that I
mean you only need the knowledge that
you've been taught in your a-level
lessons but you have to apply it to all
these unseen new situations in fact I'd
say some of the questions in these
admissions assessments on
that challenging in themselves the
challenging part is doing them in 30
seconds given two minutes to do the
question you could boom easy but when
you've got 30 seconds to do it
you just have to be really on it some of
these assessments aren't actually tied
to an a-level syllabus but a lot of them
are for example the Natural Sciences one
is based on the a-level syllabuses for
sciences and maths
so the assessment only assumes knowledge
that you have been taught in your
lessons at school it's kind of like
Olympiad style questions I don't know
how familiar you are with Olympiads but
they're like competitions where you sit
an extra challenging paper based on your
a level syllabus but again just
stretching you further there's different
stages and you get bronze silver gold
awards from it and a lot of people set
them at school but even if you're not
sitting them at school look up online
the Olympiad papers and practice some of
those questions because it will give you
more practice at stretching yourself
with your a-level knowledge I mean do
all the past papers first but there
might only be a couple of past papers to
do if your admission assessment hasn't
been running for that many years a lot
of them were only introduced a few years
ago so yeah this is another source of
questions Olympiad style questions are a
good shout or even it doesn't even have
to be called like Olympiad there's a
thing called the Cambridge chemistry
challenge a lot of the questions in that
were very similar to the ones that I got
in my Natural Sciences Admissions
assessment so yeah Olympiad style
questions search them up online they are
free to access I think so they're worth
looking at also this point is specific
to the Natural Sciences admissions
assessment NSAA but a lot of the
questions in it are actually identical
to some past beam-out questions so it's
worth going through some past papers for
the beam at the be mat is the business
assessment for medicine just a quick tip
there but yeah whatever admissions
assessment you're sitting past papers
time conditions get familiar with the
exam for
and that's as much as you can do really
Cambridge and Oxford say themselves it's
not expected that you're going to answer
every question crackly a lot of people
are not going to finish the paper in the
time allowed these assessments are
designed to differentiate between high
achievers a lot of applicants are all
going to be getting all a stars how do
you differentiate between those they
need a really high-level assessment so
that is why it's so challenging I
remember going to a talk back when I was
considering applying to Cambridge so
this was many many years ago and they
were only just introducing the Natural
Sciences admissions assessment and they
were like they had no idea what sort of
scores people were going to come out
with but they only expected 50% ish and
even now I think they say on the website
50% is a good score in that assessment
attainable you're used to getting 90%
plus and that being good but you have to
kind of readjust and realise that
actually 50% is good so a lot of people
leave the admission assessment thinking
I completely failed that what that went
awfully I personally left my Cambridge
admissions assessment and was honestly
like that's it I'm done I've broken my
watch my favorite watch and I failed the
admissions assessment what a bad day and
then I gone interview and subsequently
got offered a place so yeah don't be
scared when these admissions assessments
are challenging to be honest I would say
don't study too much for them cramming
just won't work with these admissions
assessments they are just testing your
aptitude how your brain works can you
adapt to these new situations and apply
your knowledge how good is your critical
thinking all that it's not worth over
preparing basically just do your best
and don't stress too much over them
because they are literally one small
part of the application cambridge takes
a holistic approach to applications as
does Oxford meaning they never consider
one part of the application in isolation
if you do a poor performance in the
admissions assessment that might no
matter if you perform really really well
interview so they consider everything
your GCSE results a level predictions
your personal statement your interview
performance your admissions assessment
performance all that jazz they take it
all into account the admissions
assessment is not the be-all and end-all
although Cambridge and Oxford do kind of
take different approaches to it
Cambridge actually interviews a lot more
people than Oxford do Oxford will have a
cut-off point from the admittance
assessment ie
the top 60% they will interview and
anyone who scored below that doesn't get
an interview so that is maybe quite
brutal
whereas Cambridge will pretty much
interview everyone and less proof their
admissions assessment and their personal
statement newcast application are
together quite poor than they might not
interview them but for the most part
Cambridge will interview most people so
the universities do kind of take a
different approach to it but that's not
meant to panic you there are just a lot
of hurdles to get over when it comes to
an application to Oxbridge the
application process does take a lot of
time and effort you do get quite
invested in it but I'm honestly so glad
that I did it because it's meant I've
had a fab time at university at
Cambridge I've loved it and it did work
out well for me I did get offered a
place I know it doesn't work out that
way for everyone but also you've got to
think wouldn't you regret it if you
didn't try I can't speak for Oxford but
I would honestly recommend Cambridge
University to so many people it is a
really good University I'd highly
encourage applying even though it may
sound like a tough application process
it's designed to be that way but yeah I
think that's it for today if you are
sitting admissions assessment good luck
you have got this believe in yourself
give the video and like subscribe hit
the notification bell follow me over on
Instagram comment down below if you have
any more questions about Cambridge
applications and I'll try answer them or
I'll make another video thanks for
watching guys bye
[Music]